<!-- Page 1 -->

## RESERVE BANK OF INDIA

www.rbi.org.in

RBI/FMRD/2026-27/407
FMRD.DIRD.No.02/14.03.046/2026-27
June 25, 2026
To
All participants in credit derivatives markets
Dear Sir/Madam,
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2026
Please refer to Paragraph 1 3 of the Statement on Developmental and Regulatory
Policies announced  as a part of the  Bi-monthly Monetary Policy Statement for 2025- 26
dated February 06, 2026, regarding the introduction of derivatives on credit indices and
total return swaps on corporate bonds . Accordingly, draft directions were released for
public comments on February 06, 2026.

## 2. Based on the feedback received, the Directions have since been finalised and issued

herewith.

## 3. These Directions have been issued by the Reserve Bank in exercise of the powers

conferred under section 45W of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, and of all the
powers enabling it in this behalf.

## 4. These Directions shall be applicable from immediate effect.

Yours faithfully
(Dimple Bhandia)
Chief General Manager

<!-- Page 2 -->
1


## RESERVE BANK OF INDIA


## FINANCIAL MARKETS REGULATION DEPARTMENT

9TH FLOOR, CENTRAL OFFICE, FORT
MUMBAI 400 001
Notification No. FMRD.DIRD. 03/14.03.004/2026-27 dated June 25, 2026
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2026
In exercise of the powers conferred under section 45W of the Reserve Bank of India Act,

## 1934 (02 of 1934)  (hereinafter called the Act) read with section 45U of the Act  and in

supersession of FMRD.DIRD.11/14.03.004/2021-22 dated February 10, 2022 and A.P.
(DIR Series) Circular No . 23 dated February 10, 2022 , the Reserve Bank of India
(hereinafter called the Reserve Bank) hereby issues the following Directions.
A reference is also invited to the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999),
Foreign Exchange Management (Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019 ( Notification No.
FEMA. 396/2019-RB dated October 17, 2019 ) and Master Direction – Reserve Bank of
India (Non-resident Investment in Debt Instruments) Directions, 2025, dated January 7,
2025, as amended from time to time.

## 1. Short title, scope, and commencement

(i) These Directions shall be called the Master Direction –  Reserve Bank of India
(Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2026.
(ii) These Directions shall apply to credit derivatives transactions undertaken in Over -
the-Counter (OTC) markets and on recognised stock exchanges in India.
(iii) These Directions shall come into force on June 25, 2026.

## 2. Definitions

(i) In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) ‘Auction settlement’ of CDS means a settlement process in which the price of
the reference/deliverable obligation at which the settlement will happen is
determined through an auction mechanism.
(b) ‘Cash settlement’ of CDS means a settlement process in which the protection
seller pays to the protection buyer, the notional amount of the CDS contract less
the expected recovery value of the reference obligation.
(c) ‘Central counterparty ’ means an entity that interposes itself between
counterparties to contracts traded in one or more financial markets, becoming

<!-- Page 3 -->
2

the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby ensuring the
performance of open contracts.
(d) ‘Company’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 2(20) of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).
(e) ‘Corporate bonds and debentures ’ mean non-convertible debt securities which
create or acknowledge indebtedness and include debentures, bonds and such
other securities issued by a body corporate or a trust or any statutory body
constituted by virtue of a legislation, whether constituting a charge on the assets
of the issuer or not, but excludes money market debt instruments, security
receipts, securiti sed debt instruments and bonds issued by the Central
Government or a State Government, or such other persons as may be specified
by the Reserve Bank.
(f) ‘Credit Default Swap (CDS) ’ means a credit derivative contract in which one
counterparty (protection seller) commits to pay to the other counterparty
(protection buyer) in the case of a credit event with respect to a reference entity
and in retur n, the protection buyer makes periodic payments (premium) to the
protection seller until the maturity of the contract or the credit event, whichever
is earlier.
(g) ‘Credit derivative’ means a derivative contract whose value is derived from the
credit risk of an underlying debt instrument  or from an index of underlying debt
instruments.
(h) ‘Credit event’ means a pre- defined event in a credit derivative contract, which
triggers a settlement under the contract.
(i) ‘Deliverable obligation’ means a debt instrument issued by the reference entity
that the protection buyer can deliver to the protection seller in a physically settled
CDS contract, in case of occurrence of a credit event.
(j) ‘Electronic Trading Platform (ETP)’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to
it in Paragraph 2 (iii) of Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Electronic
Trading Platforms) Directions, 2025 dated January 16, 2025, as amended from
time to time.
(k) ‘Exchange’ shall mean ‘recognised stock exchange’ and shall have the same
meaning as assigned to it in Section 2(f) of the Securities Contract Regulation
Act, 1956 (42 of 1956).

<!-- Page 4 -->
3

(l) ‘Future on credit indices’ means a standardised derivative contract, traded on a
recognised stock exchange, to buy or sell an index of underlying debt
instruments at a specified future date, at a price determined at the time of the
contract.
(m) ‘Government-related entity’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
Paragraph 9 of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24: Related Party
Disclosures.
(n) ‘Hedging’ means the activity of undertaking a credit derivative transaction to
reduce credit risk of a particular debt instr ument or a portfolio of debt
instruments.
(o) ‘Infrastructure company ’ means a company engaged primarily in activities
related to specific infrastructure sub-sectors listed under the Harmonized Master
List of Infrastructure Sub- sectors notified by Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance, Government of India, via gazette notification no.
F.No.13/6/2009-INF dated April 08, 2016, as amended from time to time.
(p) ‘Market-maker’ means an entity which provides prices to users and other market-
makers.
(q) ‘Money market debt instruments’ mean commercial papers and non-convertible
debentures of original or initial maturity up to one year as defined under the
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Commercial  Paper and Non-
Convertible Debentures of original or initial maturity up to one year) Directions,
2024, issued vide  Notification No. FMRD.DIRD.09/14.02.001/2023- 24 dated
January 03, 2024 as amended from time to time and certificates of deposit as
defined under the Master Direction –  Reserve Bank of India (Certificate of
Deposit) Directions, 2021, issued vide  Notification No. FMRD.
DIRD.03/14.01.003/2021-22 dated June 04, 2021,  as amended from time to
time.
(r) ‘Net worth’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 2(57) of the
Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).
(s) ‘Over-the-Counter (OTC) markets ’ mean the markets where transactions are
undertaken in any manner other than on exchanges and shall include electronic
trading platforms (ETPs).
(t) ‘Person resident outside India’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in

## Section 2(w) of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).


<!-- Page 5 -->
4

(u) ‘Physical settlement’ of CDS means a settlement process in which the protection
buyer delivers any of the eligible deliverable obligations to the protection seller
against the receipt of notional amount of the CDS contract.
(v) ‘Reference asset’ means a debt instrument issued by a reference entity or an
index of underlying debt instruments and specified in a total return swap contract.
(w) ‘Reference entity’ means an entity, against whose credit risk, a credit derivative
contract is entered into.
(x) ‘Reference obligation’ means a debt instrument issued by the reference entity
and specified in a CDS contract for the purpose of valuation of the contract and
for determining the cash settlement value or the deliverable obligation in case of
occurrence of a credit event.
(y) ‘Related party’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Paragraph

## 9 of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24 – Related Party Disclosures.

(z) ‘Resident’ shall mean a ‘person resident in India’ and shall have the same
meaning as assigned to it in section 2(v) of the Foreign Exchange Management
Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).
(aa) ‘Single-name CDS’ means a CDS contract in which the underlying is a single
reference entity.
(bb) ‘Substitution event ’ means any event that results in the reference obligation
being replaced by another obligation issued by the reference entity.
(cc) ‘Succession event’ means any event that results in the reference entity no longer
being the primary obligor for the reference obligation.
(dd) ‘Total Return Swap (TRS)’ means a credit derivative contract under which one
counterparty ( total return payer) commits to transfer the entire economic
performance of a reference asset to the other counterparty (total return receiver),
and, in return,  receives a pre- determined fixed or floating rate linked to a
benchmark.
(ee) ‘User’ means a person that undertakes derivative transactions other than as a
market-maker.
(ii) Words and expressions, used but not defined in these Directions, shall have the
same meaning as assigned to them in the Act or in FEMA, 1999.

## 3. Eligible participants

(i) The following persons shall be eligible to participate in credit derivatives market:

<!-- Page 6 -->
5

(a) Residents; and
(b) Person resident outside India, to the extent specified in these directions.

## 4. Directions on credit derivatives in the OTC market


## 4.1 Permitted products

Market-makers and users may undertake transactions in CDS and TRS contracts, subject
to the directions specified hereinafter.

## 4.2 Market-makers and users


## 4.2.1 Market-makers

(i) The following entities shall be eligible to act as market-makers in credit derivatives:
(a) Scheduled Commercial Banks, except Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks,
Local Area Banks and Regional Rural Banks;
(b) Standalone Primary Dealers;
(c) NBFCs – Upper Layer and NBFCs – Middle Layer (including Housing Financial
Companies); and
(d) Export Import Bank of India, National Bank of Agriculture and Rural
Development, National Housing Bank , Small Industries Development Bank of
India and National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development.
(ii) In case a n NBFC fails to meet the eligibility criteria  for acting as a market -maker, it
shall cease to act as a market -maker. The NBFC shall continu e to meet all its
obligations under the existing contracts till the maturity/termination of such contracts.
(iii) At least one of the parties to a credit derivative transaction shall be a market -maker
or a central counterparty authorised by the Reserve Bank for the purpose.

## 4.2.2 User Classification Framework

(i) Users shall be classified by market-makers either as retail or non-retail for the purpose
of offering credit derivative contracts.
(ii) The following users shall be eligible to be classified as non-retail users:
(a) NBFCs other than market-makers;
(b) Insurance Companies regulated by Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India (IRDAI);
(c) Pension Funds regulated by Pension Fund Regulatory and Development
Authority (PFRDA);

<!-- Page 7 -->
6

(d) Mutual Funds regulated by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI);
(e) Alternative Investment Funds regulated by Securities and Exchange Board of
India (SEBI);
(f) Resident companies with (a) minimum net worth of ₹500 crore; or (b) minimum
turnover of ₹1,000 crore, as per the latest audited financial statements;
(g) Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) registered with SEBI; and
(h) Any entity otherwise eligible to be a market-maker in terms of Paragraph 4.2.1
of these Directions.
(iii) Any user who is not eligible to be classified as a non-retail user shall be classified as
a retail user.
(iv) Any user who is otherwise eligible to be classified as a non- retail user shall have the
option to get classified as a retail user.

## 4.3 Participants in credit derivatives in the OTC market


## 4.3.1 Protection buyers and sellers for Credit Default Swaps

(i) A resident retail user, other than an individual, shall be allowed to buy protection only
for the purpose of hedging.
(ii) A non-retail user shall be allowed to buy protection without any restriction in terms of
purpose.
(iii) The following non-retail users shall be eligible to act as protection sellers:
(a) An Insurance Company regulated by IRDAI;
(b) A Pension Fund regulated by PFRDA;
(c) A Mutual Fund regulated by SEBI;
(d) An Alternative Investment Fund regulated by SEBI; and
(e) An FPI registered with SEBI.
(iv) Insurance Companies, Pension Funds, Mutual Funds and Alternat ive Investment
Funds mentioned under Paragraph 4.3.1(iii) shall be permitted to act as protection
sellers subject to approval of their respective regulator.
(v) Participation by FPIs in CDS contracts shall be subject to the following,
(a) The notional amount of CDS protection sold by all FPIs shall be subject to a limit
of 5 per cent of the outstanding stock of corporate bonds. Clearing Corporation
of India Ltd. (CCIL) shall disseminate the utilisation of the  limit based on the
reporting by the market makers in terms of P aragraph 4.5.5 of these directions

<!-- Page 8 -->
7

and reporting by stock exchanges in terms of Paragraph 6.1 (vii) of these
directions. FPIs shall not sell any further CDS protection once the limit is utilised.
(b) Debt instruments received by FPIs as deliverable obligation and debt instruments
purchased by FPIs for meeting deliverable obligation in physical settlement o f
CDS contracts shall be reckoned under the investment limits for corporate bonds
as specified in  in A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 05 dated April 6, 2026 , as
amended from time to time.  In case of non-availability of investment limit at the
time of physical settlement, such debt instruments shall be adjusted against the
revised limit in the subsequent review of investment limit.
(c) The notional amount of protection sold by FPIs, and the debt instruments
received as deliverable obligation as well as debt instruments purchased for
meeting deliverable obligation by FPIs in physical settlement of CDS contracts
shall not be subject to the minimum residual maturity requirement or issue-wise
limit applicable to FPI investment in corporate bonds as specified in Master
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-resident Investment in Debt Instruments)
Directions, 2025, dated January 7, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(d) A market maker shall not offer a CDS contract to an FPI where the reference
obligation or the index includes a money market debt instrument or a debt
instrument with residual maturity less than one year  or a bond with call / put
options exercisable within one year from the date of the undertaking the CDS
contract.
(vi)  A market-maker shall not offer CDS contracts to an individual.

## 4.3.2 Participants in total return swaps

(i) A market-maker may offer a TRS contract to a resident retail user , other than an
individual, only for the purpose of hedging.
(ii) A market-maker may offer a TRS contract to a resident non-retail user without any
restriction in terms of purpose.
(iii) A market-maker may offer a TRS contract to a person outside India subject to the
following:
(a) A market-maker may offer a TRS contract to a person resident outside India,
including an FPI, for the purpose of hedging;
(b) A market maker may also offer a TRS contract to a person resident outside
India, including an FPI , wherein the person resident outside India is the total

<!-- Page 9 -->
8

return receiver provide d that the TRS is offered as a fully funded structure in
which the person resident outside India provides to the market -maker in India
the full notional amount of the reference asset.
Provided that no offshore derivative instrument with the TRS contract as
underlying shall be written by the person resident outside India.
(c) A market maker may offer a TRS contract to a person resident outside India,
including an FPI, directly or on a back -to-back basis through overseas entities
(including overseas branches, IFSC Banking Units, wholly owned subsidiaries
and joint ventures of market-makers) subject to the following conditions:
i. The overseas entity is eligible to deal with the product concerned in the
capacity of a dealer / market-maker as per the host jurisdiction’s laws and
regulations;
ii. The wholly owned subsidiary / joint venture of the market -maker
incorporated in India can undertake such transactions provided the wholly
owned subsidiary / joint venture is a banking entity; and
iii. The market-maker shall provide information, data or any other particulars
required by the Reserve Bank of India in respect of the aforesaid
transactions in the manner and time prescribed.
(d) The notional amount of the TRS contract offered to a person resident outside
India through a fully  funded structure shall be reckoned under the investment
limits for corporate bonds as specified in Master Direction  – Reserve Bank of
India (Non- resident Investment in Debt Instruments) Directions, 2025,  dated
January 7, 2025, as amended from time to time;
(e) Where the reference asset specified in a TRS contract includes an unlisted
corporate bond or debenture, the same shall comply wit h the end use
restrictions set out in Paragraph 4.4 (vi) of the Master Direction – Reserve Bank
of India (Non-resident Investment in Debt Instruments) Directions, 2025, dated
January 7, 2025;
(f) A market maker shall not offer a TRS contract to a person resident outside India
where the reference asset or the index includes a money market debt
instrument or a debt instrument with residual maturity less than one year  or a
bond with call / put options exercisable within one year from the date of the
contract; and
(iv) A market-maker shall not offer a TRS contract to an individual.

<!-- Page 10 -->
9


## 4.4 Reference Entities, Obligations and Assets

(i) The reference entity in a credit derivative contract shall be a resident entity who is
eligible to issue any of the debt instruments mentioned under Paragraph 4.4 (ii).
(ii) The following debt instruments issued in India shall be eligible to be a reference
obligation in a CDS contract or a reference asset in a TRS contract:
(a) Money market debt instruments;
(b) Rated INR corporate bonds and debentures; and
(c) Unrated INR corporate bonds and debentures  issued by the S pecial Purpose
Vehicles set up by infrastructure companies.
(iii) Bonds with call/put options shall be eligible to be reference obligations /reference
assets.
(iv) Asset-backed securities/mortgage-backed securities and structured obligations such
as credit enhanced/guaranteed bonds, convertible bonds, etc. shall not be permitted
as reference obligations/reference assets.
(v) The reference obligation /deliverable obligation /reference asset  shall be in
dematerialised form.
(vi) The underlying reference obligation for a CDS  or a reference asset for a TRS  may
be an index comprising solely of eligible debt instruments as set out in Paragraph 4.4
(ii) of these Directions , subject to the condition that the index is published by a
financial benchmark administrator which is duly authorised by the Reserve Bank
under the Reserve Bank of India (Financial Benchmark Administrators) Directions,

## 2023 dated December 28, 2023, as amended from time to time, or is duly authorised

under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Index Providers) Regulations
dated March 8, 2024, as amended from time to time.
Note: An index which is based wholly or partially on money market debt instruments
shall be published by a financial benchmark administrator which is duly authorised
by the Reserve Bank under the Reserve Bank of India (Financial Benchmark
Administrators) Directions, 2023 dated December 28, 2023, as amended from time
to time.

<!-- Page 11 -->
10


## 4.5 Other operational Directions for credit derivatives


## 4.5.1 Buying, Unwinding and Settlement

(i) Market participants shall not enter into CDS or TRS transactions if the reference entity
is a related party to either counterparty. However, two (or more) government-related
entities shall not be deemed as related parties for the purpose of these Directions.
(ii) Unless specifically permitted  in these directions , market participants shall not
undertake credit derivative transactions involving reference entities /reference
obligations//reference assets, if there are regulatory restrictions on such participants
assuming similar exposures in the cash market or in violation of any other regulatory
restriction, as may be applicable.
(iii) Market participants can exit their credit derivative contracts by unwinding the contract
with the original counterparty or assigning the contract to any other eligible market
participant through novation 1 subject to the provisions of the circular on Novation of
OTC Derivative Contracts dated December 9, 2013  issued vide Notification No.
DBOD.No.BP.BC.76/21.04.157/2013-14. However, provisions under Paragraph  2,
Paragraph 5.1 and Paragraph 5.2 of the above circular shall not apply to credit
derivative transactions undertaken in terms of these Directions.
(iv) Market participants shall settle their credit derivative contracts bilaterally or through
any clearing and settlement arrangement approved by the Reserve Bank.  A credit
derivative contract undertaken with a non-resident by a market-maker, which is a bank
having an Authorised Dealer Category-I (AD Cat-I) license under FEMA, 1999, or an
SPD authorize d under section 10(1) of FEMA,1999, can be settled in INR or in a
foreign currency.
(v) Credit derivative contracts can be cash settled or physically settled. CDS contracts
can also be settled through auction. The procedure for cash settlement and auction
settlement of CDS contracts shall be determined by the Credit Derivatives
Determinations Committee, as specified under Paragraph 5 of these Directions. TRS
contracts undertaken by a person resident outside India, who is not an FPI, shall be
cash settled.

1 Novation is the replacement of a contract between two counterparties to an OTC derivative transaction (the
transferor, who steps out of the existing contract, and the remaining party) with a new contract between the remaining
party and a third party (the transferee). The transferee becomes the new counterparty to the remaining party.

<!-- Page 12 -->
11

(vi) Any floating interest rate used in a TRS shall be a benchmark published by a financial
benchmark administrator which is duly authorised by the Reserve Bank under the
Reserve Bank of India (Financial Benchmark Administrators) Directions, 2023 dated
December 28, 2023, as amended from time to time.

## 4.5.2 Credit derivative transactions with users for purposes of hedging

(i) While offering a credit derivative contract for the purpose of hedging, the market
maker shall ensure that the user:
(a) shall have exposure to the reference asset / any of the eligible reference
obligations/ any one or more of the debt instruments comprising the index in the
case of a credit derivative contract on an index
(b) shall not buy a credit derivative contract(s) with notional amount higher than the
face value of the reference obligation / reference asset held by them; and
(c) shall not buy a credit derivative contract with a tenor later than the maturity of
the reference obligation / reference asset held by them or the standard CDS /
TRS maturity date immediately after the maturity of the reference obligation or
reference asset.
(ii) To ensure compliance with the above, market -makers may call for any relevant
information/documents from the user, who, in turn, shall be obliged to provide such
information.
(iii) Users undertaking credit derivative transactions for the purpose of hedging shall exit
their credit derivative position within one month from the date they cease to have the
underlying exposure.

## 4.5.3 Standardisation

(i) The settlement basis and market conventions for credit derivative contracts shall be
specified by the Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India
(FIMMDA), in consultation with market participants and based on international best
practices. FIMMDA may also prescribe standard doc umentation procedures for credit
derivative transactions. Market participants may, alternatively, use a standard master
agreement for credit derivative contracts.
(ii) Market participants shall ensure that t he CDS contract represent s a direct claim on
the protection seller. The contract shall not have any clause that may:

<!-- Page 13 -->
12

(a) allow the protection seller to unilaterally cancel the contract, except in case of a
default by the protection buyer under the terms of the contract;
(b) prevent the protection seller from making the credit event payment in a timely
manner, after occurrence of the credit event and completion of necessary
conditions and requirements under the terms of contract; or
(c) provide the protection seller any recourse to the protection buyer for credit event
losses.

## 4.5.4 Customer protection

(i) Market-makers in OTC markets shall comply with the Master Direction –  Reserve
Bank of India (Market-makers in OTC Derivatives) Directions, 2021 issued vide RBI
Circular No. FMRD.FMD.07/02.03.247/2021 -22 dated September 16, 2021, as
amended from time to time and the Reserve Bank of India ( Prevention of Market
Abuse) Directions, 2019 issued vide RBI Circular No.
FMRD.FMSD.11/11.01.012/2018-19 dated March 15, 2019, as amended from time
to time.

## 4.5.5 Reporting

(i) Market-makers shall report all OTC credit derivative transactions within 30 minutes
of the transaction, to the trade repository of Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL).
(ii) Market-makers shall report all amendments, unwinding, novation, settlement
transactions, and any credit, substitution or succession event to the trade repository
of CCIL.
(iii) The reporting formats shall be as indicated by CCIL with the prior approval of the
Reserve Bank.

## 5. Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee

(i) FIMMDA shall set up a Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee, consisting of
market-makers and users in credit derivatives as voting members. FIMMDA shall
ensure that users are adequately represented in the Committee. The Committee may
also include central counterparties as observer members and legal/audit/consultancy
firms as consultative members.
(ii) FIMMDA shall establish rules for governing the activities of the Credit Derivatives
Determinations Committee in line with international best practices.

<!-- Page 14 -->
13

(iii) The Credit Derivatives  Determinations Committee, when approached by market
participants, shall make factual deter minations regarding key provisions of credit
derivative contracts including, but not limited to, the occurrence of a credit event,
substitution event, succession event, determining the identity of successor reference
entity, etc.
(iv) The Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee shall, in consultation with market
participants, develop a standard procedure for cash and auction settlement of CDS
contracts.
(v) The Credit Derivatives  Determinations Committee, when approached by market
participants, may conduct an auction to determine the reference price for settlement
of CDS contracts. The Credit Derivatives  Determinations Committee shall put in
place procedures/safeguards to ensure that the reference price is determined in a
fair and transparent manner.
(vi) The decisions of the Credit Derivatives  Determinations Committee shall be binding
on the market participants.

## 6. Directions for exchange traded credit derivatives


## 6.1. Credit default swaps

(i) Exchanges may offer standardised single- name CDS contracts and CDS contracts
on credit indices with guaranteed settlement.
(ii) Exchanges shall obtain prior approval of the Reserve Bank for product design,
changes in product design, eligible participants and other details of CDS contracts.
The operational guidelines on the procedure for execution and settlement of trades
on stock exchanges shall be prescribed by SEBI.
(iii) The reference entities and reference obligations for exchange- traded CDS shall be
as specified under Paragraph 4.4 of these Directions.
(iv) The credit index for an exchange-traded CDS contract shall be an index comprising
solely of eligible debt instruments as  set out in para  4.4 (ii) of these Directions,
subject to the condition that the index is published by a financial benchmark
administrator which is duly authorised by the Reserve Bank under the Reserve Bank
of India (Financial Benchmark Administrators) Directions, 2023 dated December 28,
2023, as amended from time to time, or that the index is composed / administered
as per the directions issued by SEBI from time to time.

<!-- Page 15 -->
14

Note: An index which is based wholly or partially on money market debt instruments
shall be published by a financial benchmark administrator which is duly authorised
by the Reserve Bank under the Reserve Bank of India (Financial Benchmark
Administrators) Directions, 2023 dated December 28, 2023, as amended from time
to time.
(v) Participants, who are retail users, as defined under P aragraph 4.2.2 of these
Directions, shall undertake transactions in exchange- traded CDS only for hedging
and such users
(a) shall have exposure to any of the eligible reference obligations  or any one or
more of the debt instruments comprising the index in the case of a CDS contract
on an index;
(b) shall not buy a CDS contract(s) for notional amount higher than the face value
of the reference obligation held by them; and
(c) shall not buy a CDS contract with a tenor later than the maturity of the reference
obligation held by them or the standard CDS maturity date immediately after the
maturity of the reference obligation.
(vi) The determinations made by Credit Derivatives  Determinations Committee shall be
applicable to exchange-traded CDS contracts.
(vii) FPIs may transact in exchange- traded CDS as protection sellers and/or protection
buyers. Participation by FPIs shall be subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4.3(1)(v)
of these Directions. Exchanges shall report the gross notional amount of protection
sold by FPIs to CCIL on a daily basis by the end of the day, or on an intra-day basis
if required by the Reserve Bank.
(viii) FPI shall not sell protection through CDS contracts  where reference obligation is a
money market debt instrument , a debt instrument with residual maturity less than
one year, or a bond with call / put options exercisable within one year from the date
of the contract, or an index referencing money market instruments or debt
instruments with residual maturity less than one year or bonds with call / put options
exercisable within one year from the date of the contract.

## 6.2 Futures on credit indices

(i) Exchanges may offer futures contracts on credit indices with guaranteed settlement,
provided that:

<!-- Page 16 -->
15

(a) The credit index used as underlying for futures contracts shall be composed
solely of eligible debt instruments as set out in para 4.4 (ii) of these directions ;
and
(b) The composition / administration of the index shall be as per the directions
issued by SEBI.
Note: A credit index which is  based wholly or partially on money market debt
instruments shall be published by a financial benchmark administrator which is duly
authorised by the Reserve Bank under the Reserve Bank of India (Financial
Benchmark Administrators) Directions, 2023 dated December 28, 2023, as amended
from time to time.
(ii) Exchanges shall obtain prior approval of the Reserve Bank for product design,
changes in product design, eligible participants , and other details of the futures
contracts. The operational guidelines on the procedure for execution and settlement
of trades on stock exchanges shall be prescribed by SEBI.
(iii) Participation of Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) in futures on credit indices shall be
subject to the following:
(a) The aggregate long position assumed by FPIs in future  contracts on credit
indices shall be reckoned under the investment limits for corporate debt
securities as specified in Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Non-resident
Investment in Debt Instruments) Directions, 2025 dated January 07, 20 25, as
amended from time to time;
(b) The total gross short (sold) position of any FPI shall not exceed its consolidated
long position in corporate bonds and debentures and in future contracts on credit
indices, at any point in time; and
(c) FPIs shall not participate in future contracts on credit indices where the
underlying credit index includes a money market debt instrument or a debt
instrument with residual maturity less than one year or a bond with call / put
options exercisable within one year from the date of the contract.

## 6.3 Other Directions

(i) Exchanges shall ensure that the participants on exchanges are made adequately
aware of the risks associated with credit derivative contracts.

<!-- Page 17 -->
16

(ii) Participants shall not undertake credit derivative transactions involving reference
entities if there are regulatory restrictions on assuming similar exposures in the cash
market or in violation of any other regulatory restriction, as may be applicable.
(iii) Exchanges shall furnish any information relating to credit derivative transactions to
the Reserve Bank or any other agency as may be specified by the Reserve Bank in
the manner and format and within the time frame as may be specified by the Reserve
Bank.

## 7. Valuation methodology

Market-makers shall put in place robust methodologies for marking to market credit
derivative contracts. The valuation methodology adopted shall be applied consistently
and shall be appropriately documented and disclosed.

## 8. Prudential norms, accounting and capital requirements

(i) Market participants shall follow the applicable prudential norms and capital adequacy
requirements for credit derivatives issued by their respective regulators.
(ii) The accounting of credit derivative  contracts by market participants shall be as per
notified and applicable accounting standards read with regulatory
guidelines/instructions issued by the respective regulators.  In case the notified
applicable accounting standards or the respective regulator have not prescribed the
accounting treatment for credit derivative contracts, guidance, if any, issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India shall be followed in this regard.

## 9. Obligation to provide information sought by the Reserve Bank

The Reserve Bank may call for any information or statement or seek any clarification,
which in the opinion of the Reserve Bank is relevant, from persons or agencies dealing
in credit derivatives contracts, including eligible participants, and such persons, agencies
and participants shall furnish such information, statement or clarification in the manner
and format and within the time frame as may be specified by the Reserve Bank.

## 10. Dissemination of data

(i) The Reserve Bank, or any other person or agency authorised by the Reserve Bank,
may in public interest, publish any anonymised data related to transactions in credit
derivatives market.

<!-- Page 18 -->
17

(ii) CCIL shall publish the notional value of credit derivative contracts outstanding for
each debt instrument on a daily basis.

## 11. Violation of Directions

In the event of any person or agency violating any provision of these Directions or the
provisions of any other applicable law, the Reserve Bank may, in addition to taking any
penal or regulatory action in accordance with law, disallow that person or agency from
dealing in the credit derivatives market for a period not exceeding one month at a time,
after providing reasonable opportunity to the person or agency to defend its actions, and
such action will be made public by the Reserve Bank.

## 12. These Directions shall apply to all credit derivative transactions entered into from the

date the Directions come into effect. Existing Directions will continue to be applicable to
the credit derivatives transactions undertaken in accordance with the said Directions till
the expiry of those contracts.
